0x00. C - Hello, World

Task 100 Intel

How to generate assembly code (Intel syntax) of a C program

Sometimes, you may want to see the assembly code generated by the compiler from your C code. You can do this by generating the assembly code from the C code and then examining it. In this guide, we will show you how to generate assembly code (Intel syntax) of a C program and save it in an output file.

Steps:

1-Write a C program that you want to convert to assembly code. For example, let's say you have the following C program in a file called myprogram.c:

#include <stdio.h>

int main() {
    printf("Hello, world!\n");
    return 0;
}

2-Compile the C program using the -S flag to generate an assembly code file. For example, to generate an assembly code file in Intel syntax called myprogram.s, you can run the following command:

gcc -S -masm=intel myprogram.c -o myprogram.s

The -S flag tells the compiler to generate assembly code instead of object code, and the -masm=intel flag tells the compiler to use Intel syntax instead of the default AT&T syntax.

3-The generated assembly code will be saved in the file myprogram.s. You can view the contents of the file using a text editor or the cat command:
bash

cat myprogram.s

4-If you want to save the output to a file, you can use the output redirection operator (>) to redirect the output to a file. For example, to save the assembly code to a file called myprogram_asm.s, you can run the following command:

gcc -S -masm=intel myprogram.c -o myprogram_asm.s

This will create a file called myprogram_asm.s in the current directory containing the generated assembly code.

Note that the generated assembly code may not be easy to read or understand, especially if you are not familiar with assembly language programming. It is recommended to have some knowledge of assembly language programming before attempting to read or write assembly code.
